I'll leave the village for now.
You wouldn't want to have
to deal with an outsider
who isn't even a contestant,
right, Kinro-chan the guard?
We can talk about your end of our deal
after you've captured
the village, Senku-chan.
Sure.
Chrome...
Ruri-ch—
Priestess, you're going to
have to marry the winner, huh?
Don't worry.
Now it's just up to me or
Senku to give up the victory.
The winner is going to be Chrome.
I can tell, you know.
You really wanted Chrome
to win, didn't you?
Ow, ow, ow!
Good job figuring out the difference
between convex and concave, Chrome.
No, as the priestess,
I have no such thoughts.
I'm only a servant of the gods.
I will marry the winner of the Grand Bout.
Really?
Huh, I always thought...
Wait a second... Does that mean
you don't really care who wins?!
Huh?
Well...
That's right.
Try to read between the
lines a little, Ginro.
What else is Ruri-sama supposed to say?
Village Chief
Village chief...
Ginro!
Scumbag
Match two of the semi-finals will now begin.
Senku versus Ginro.
Both contestants, forward.
What the hell's gotten into you, Ginro?!
I mean...
Ruri-chan said she'll marry anyone!
So maybe I have a shot at
being village chief, too!
Maybe it's finally my time to shine!
G-Ginro, you...
He's way too scummy.
If I become the chief,
I'll get to have ramen every day!
And a harem!
I'm going to turn it into
a super awesome village!
I think he's...
Ginro... Anyone but you.
We can't let him become the village chief.
We have to take down that scum now!
But Senku doesn't stand a chance.
Senku...
Our weapon is science, is it not?
I guess I don't have a choice.
You're about to use some
crazy sorcery, aren't you?
No you don't!
That man is smart. Senku, was it?
Winner: Senku!
Ginro's down!
Senku's going to the finals!
The whole village has come together!
Yeah.
Now we can turn the village
into a kingdom of science...
And we can save... Ruri...
All right, it's the final now.
Now I just need to lose on purpose,
and Chrome, you'll marry Ruri
and become the village chief.
Happily ever afters all around!
Get up and...
Um, he's conked out.
He must be mighty relieved to know
that Ruri-nee's going to be all right.
Eh?
Does that mean...
What happens now?
Does that mean the final...
The new village chief,
the husband of the priestess...
is the winner of the Grand Bout, Senku!
Position of village chief and marriage partner acquired!!
The Culmination of Two Million Years
S-So...
What now?
Well, this is a pain in the ass.
So I just have to marry Ruri,
and the whole village is mine, right?
I'll do it, then.
Senku's married!
Hold it, Senku! Where do you even come from?
I won't allow an outsider
to become the chief!
Well, well, if it isn't
the former village chief.
I don't have a millimeter of
interest in your lack of approval.
Who are we supposed to side with?
With Kokuyo-sama, obviously!
What are you, mental?!
But he won in front of the
gods, fair and square.
And he's married to the priestess, too.
Whatever. A win is a win.
Wine! Bring me wine!
That's too blunt!
You sound like one of those people!
This barrel's no good.
It's turned into vinegar.
Don't chuck it! We need that, too!
Ruri-nee!
Ruri!
I'm fine.
She's definitely out of time.
We just finished the Bout,
and I don't even have time to rest.
Let's head back and
finish the sulfa drug—
Hold it!
Where do you think you're going?
You're the guest of honor.
Come on, have a drink.
We're drinking through the night
to celebrate. It's tradition.
Oh, really?
I'm divorcing, then.
Senku got divorced!
I got a ton of alcohol and vinegar!
Let's haul ass,
citizens of the kingdom of science!
Since when am I a citizen
of the kingdom of science?
Sorry, Ruri-nee! I'll explain later!
That man is utterly insane.
I'm a little confused, but it seems I've
become the first divorced priestess ever.
Right, Chrome?
This is bullshit!
Capture that man!
Senku is not evil.
Please let him explain for himself
what the sorcerers—I mean, science users—
have been risking their lives
to do for the past half year.
What I've seen them do.
What's this?
The river water is making
the bamboo spin around.
I nailed it on my first attempt.
Go, me!
You can fall in love with
me if you want, girls.
Not bad.
I usually botch my first few
attempts at building anything.
Senku, you don't need
to fall in love with me.
So what does this let us make?
That's the thing.
I have no idea.
You'll find out tomorrow.
I'll keep an eye on it for a while.
I'd cry if my child were to be
destroyed by driftwood or something.
You!
Are you going to leave a weak
old man to stand guard by himself?!
Stay and help. I'm sure you
have nothing better to do!
Give me a break, grampa!
Uh, sure. Yes. I'll help you.
Weak old man?!
Wake up and smell the ammonia.
Get up and help out, science team!
Now we just need to put it
together, and we're done.
We're going to finish the ultimate
cure-all sulfa drug by tomorrow.
Tomorrow?!
Fun with Making Sulfa Drugs
Fun with Making Sulfa Drugs.
Step one.
First, we're using a burnable
rock called coal to...
Burnable rocks!
Got it.
I have some in my shelter.
We used up all of it when we made iron.
Damn it!
Don't worry.
We can find plenty of the kind
of cheap coal that you gathered
from any of the mountains around here.
Besides, it's not even
the coal that we want.
It's the coal tar that's
left after it's burned.
First, wash it with hydrochloric acid,
then throw in ethyl acetate made from
alcohol and vinegar, and we have anilin.
Hold it, hold it!
I'm already totally lost!
That's step one?
How many of these complicated
steps are we doing by tomorrow?
Oh, up to... step 25, maybe?
Holy...
So what is this thing, anyway?
Can I look inside already?
Is this...
Carbonated water
acquired!!
Can you make some, Senku-chan?
Can you make a bottle of cola?
Yeah, I can.
Even if no one else can.
Nah, there's no way he's that nice!
Senku-chan, what's this fizzy water for?
Oh, no!
Was there an explosion or something?
This is pretty bad, huh?
What have you done?
We haven't done anything, really.
We poured vinegar on some cooked shells,
extracted glacial acetic acid using sulfuric
acid, turned it into ketene in an iron pipe,
and put it back to make acetic anhydride.
H-Huh. I see.
So I tried to drip that acetic
anhydride into the aniline,
but I poured on way too much, and kaboom.
So that's what this wreckage is from.
Mix the chlorosulfuric acid into
the acetanilide we just made,
and we get
para-acetamidobenzenesulfonyl chloride.
Throw some ammonia in there to make
para-acetamidobenzenesulfonic acid,
cook it in hydrochloric acid,
and you get that stuff.
I'm impressed you can say that
without stuttering, Senku-chan.
Lastly, that carbonated water.
Oh, right, Senku-chan.
I'm not expecting anything, but...
That's right. You know what
carbonated water means.
Carbonated water means...
We mix it with sodium hydroxide
to make baking soda!
Right.
Of course. Baking soda.
That's what I was thinking.
Step 25.
Finally, we wash this stuff with
baking soda, and then we wait.
It's been a long time.
Half a year.
Iron
Alcohol
Electricity
Vinegar
Sodium
Bicarbonate
Salt
Sulfuric
Acid
Urine
Powerful
Magnets
Copper
Phosphorus
Sodium
Hydroxide
Hydrogen Sulfate
Coal
Aniline
Chlorosulfuric Acid
Hydrochloric Acid
Carbonic Acid
Acetic Anhydride
Ammonia
Cure-all
Sulfa Drugs
It's been crazy.
Sulfanilamide.
Also known as...
the cure-all sulfa drug.
It's done!
Yeah!
Finally...
Finally, Ruri-nee...
Don't start crying yet, idiot.
Wait until she's actually better.
I'm not crying!
Too bad.
I can't go inside the village,
so I won't be there to see Ruri-chan take it.
Have fun waiting at the lab by yourself.
Gen did lots and lots of work, too.
I feel sorry for him.
I guess this is just the
way it is for bats like me.
Hey, I'm Mecha Senku!
Mix together carbonated water, cilantro,
lime, and honey caramel, and you get cola.
Try tossing some lime zest
onto crushed cilantro.
You'll be shocked at how
much it smells like cola!
Ruri, don't worry.
That medicine is the powder
of life, born from stone.
It's the cure-all of science.
It'll knock out your sickness for sure!
A mystery bug versus the culmination
of two million years of human science...
This is exhilarating.
All right, I finally get to see my patient.
Time to make a diagnosis.
Say "Ee."
It sounds like a goat bleating.
That's evidence that there's
fluid in her lungs.
What are you doing with
that mouse, Senku-chan?
Are we eating it?
I like how that's the first
thing that comes to your mind.
Well, I don't eat rats, either.
I'm glad.
Usually.
Usually, huh?
They're a good source of protein.
But unfortunately, we aren't
eating it this time.
This is an autopsy.
Red inflammation all over the lungs.
It's definitely a bacterial infection.
Even the mice are catching it.
The question is what
species of bacteria it is.
Even a cure-all has its limits.
It's not ten billion percent guaranteed
that it'll take down any bacteria.
If Ruri has pulmonary tuberculosis...
If the enemy is a tuberculosis germ...
We don't stand a chance.
This is bad!
Ruri-nee is...
You don't need to get up.
Stay on your side.
Breathe slowly.
It's never been this bad before.
She may be in danger.
It started as soon as she had
that suspicious white powder.
I told you not to trust sorcery medicine!
Ruri!
Ruri-nee!
Senku...
Senku, you bastard!
It's because of that drug!
Father!
If it weren't for that drug,
Ruri wouldn't have taken
such a turn for the worse!
You might be right.
I knew it!
The bacteria is getting serious.
It's making allies by spreading
its toxic genes into the harmless
bacteria all around it.
It's the pneumococcus
bacteria's special move.
Which means Ruri's disease...
is pneumonia.
Don't underestimate pneumonia.
It's a deadly disease that's killed
hundreds of millions of people.
But sulfa drugs absolutely
destroy pneumococcus bacteria.
We won!
Human science has won!
Now that we know what it is,
we have the upper hand.
We just need to throw
more sulfa drug at her.
Enough of this!
Father, this is nothing like the
fraudulent sorcery that you know.
It's called science.
It's the culmination of human wisdom.
I believe in science, and in Senku.
Yeah, so do I!
I kind of do, too.
Sheesh, Ruri.
I'm actually surprised
she lived to eighteen.
Stay clean and keep warm, and the
disease's progression will slow.
The hot spring water that Kohaku hauled
in every day ended up protecting Ruri.
Ruri...
Ruri!
I don't remember how
many years it's been...
since I've left the village
or been able to run!
Kohaku-chan's rambunctiousness must
have run in the family all along.
Listen, all!
From this day forth, this man, Senku,
is the new chief of Ishigami Village!
Ishigami Village?
Yes, Senku.
I've known about you for a long time.
Your name is Ishigami Senku.
A Tale for the Ages
Next Time
This is a work of fiction, but the plants,
animals, and production methods described are based on reality.
Foraging and making things on your own accord is extremely dangerous
and, in some cases, illegal. Please do not imitate without expertise.